Identity Agent Guide (#1149)
TBD54566975/developer.tbd.website: site/docs/web5/build/Agent/how-to-create-identity-agent.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

> # Create an identity agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Using Identity Agents
```

> Identity agents manage [Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs)](https://developer.tbd.website/docs/web5/learn/decentralized-identifiers), data, and communication between [Decentralized Web Nodes (DWNs)](https://developer.tbd.website/docs/web5/learn/decentralized-web-nodes). For developers' convenience, the `Web5.connect()` function uses default settings to connect to an identity agent. However, there can be scenarios where setting up a custom agent is necessary. This guide provides a step-by-step demonstration of how to create an identity agent equipped with a [portable DID](https://developer.tbd.website/docs/web5/build/decentralized-identifiers/how-to-create-did#portable-did).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Identity agents manage [DIDs](https://developer.tbd.website/docs/web5/learn/decentralized-identifiers), data, and communication between [DWNs](https://developer.tbd.website/docs/web5/learn/decentralized-web-nodes). 

For convenience, the `Web5.connect()` function uses a default identity agent. However, Web5 also provides the ability for users to utilize their own custom agent. 

This guide provides an overview of how to create an identity agent, import a DID into the agent, and connect the agent to a Web5 app.
```

<details>
<summary>Prerequisites</summary>

**Install the following packages**

```bash
npm i @web5/dids @web5/user-agent @web5/api
```

**Import the following modules**
```js
import { DidIonMethod, DidKeyMethod } from '@web5/dids';
import { Web5UserAgent } from '@web5/user-agent';
import { Web5, getTechPreviewDwnEndpoints } from '@web5/api';
```

> This guide focuses on utilizing `DidIonMethod` and `DidKeyMethod` for setting up an identity agent. Currently, DID methods like the `DidDhtMethod` are not supported in this context.

Reviewer: gasp regarding did:dht. i want to share this info but also i cant help but think we'll forget to come in this collapsed section and update this when it's no longer the case. any ideas on how to track this? is there an issue that you know of for adding support for did:dht?

Author: I think this issue will add service endpoints to did dht and then we should be able to use it. https://github.com/TBD54566975/web5-js/issues/368

</details>

## Initialize the Agent

> Create an instance of the Web5 User Agent to begin your identity agent setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an instance of `Web5UserAgent` to begin setting up the Identity Agent
```

```javascript
const agent = await Web5UserAgent.create();
```

## Authenticate with a passphrase
For security purposes, the identity agent prompts the end user to enter a secure passphrase when it initially launches. In this example, `insecure-static-phrase` is used as a placeholder.
```javascript

> await agent.start({ passphrase: 'insecure-static-phrase' });

Author: this is hardcoded into the web5.ts source code. other passphrases don't work with it lol

Reviewer: 😭

Reviewer: @frankhinek is this the intent?

if so, Rizel please put a note in here saying it can't be changed.

Author: Reference: https://github.com/TBD54566975/web5-js/blob/44c38a116dec0b357ca15d807eb513f819341e50/packages/api/src/web5.ts#L116-L121

Reviewer 2: No, not at all.  The intent is to NOT use the default passphrase.  The only reason it is there is to make it easy to get started in the first 5 minutes.  A developer should always prompt the user to select their own passphrase.

In fact going forward, a warning will be logged in the event the user isn't prompted to select their own passphrase.

Author: oh so they can use whatever passphrase they want? Because I tried out different ones and I got an error.  Like I tried out this
```js
await userAgent.start({ passphrase: 'my-static-passphrase' });
```

and I got a "Wrong tag" error 

@frankhinek

Author: NEVER MIND I FIGURED IT OUT. I had to clear my cache because the data I had was encrypted with the old passphrase. I will update this and remove my note about them having to use that passphrase. Thank you!!!

```

## Generate a portable DID

> Generating a portable DID document requires the following steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd like to associate DWNs with a DID, you can do so. In the following example, we'll use the TBD-hosted DWN endpoints:
```

> - **getTechPreviewDwnEndpoints()** - selects up to 2 DWN endpoints that are provided by default during the Tech Preview period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: moved these to be inline comments

>  * **DidIonMethod.generateDwnOptions({ serviceEndpointNodes })** - generates two key pairs used for authorization and encryption purposes when interfacing with DWNs. The IDs of these keys are referenced in the service object that includes the dwnUrls provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  * **DidIonMethod.create(didOptions)** - creates the DID document with the given options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```javascript

> const serviceEndpointNodes = await getTechPreviewDwnEndpoints();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// selects DWN endpoints that are provided by default during the Web5 tech preview period
const serviceEndpointNodes = await getTechPreviewDwnEndpoints();
```

> const didOptions = await DidIonMethod.generateDwnOptions({ serviceEndpointNodes });

Reviewer: ```suggestion

// generates key pairs used for authorization and encryption when interfacing with DWNs
const didOptions = await DidIonMethod.generateDwnOptions({ serviceEndpointNodes });
```

> const portableDid = await DidIonMethod.create(didOptions);

Reviewer: ```suggestion

// creates a new DID and its associated data
const portableDid = await DidIonMethod.create(didOptions);
```

```
<details>
<summary>The above code snippet is the equivalent of:</summary>

```javascript
await DidIonMethod.create({
        services: [{
            type: 'DecentralizedWebNode',
            id: '#dwn',
            serviceEndpoint: {
                "encryptionKeys": [
                    "#dwn-enc"
                ],
                "nodes": [
                    "https://dwn.tbddev.org/dwn0",
                    "https://dwn.tbddev.org/dwn2"
                ],
                "signingKeys": [
                    "#dwn-sig"
                ]
            }
        }]
    })
```
</details>

> ## Import your portable DID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Import DID
```

Reviewer: don't use the phrase "your DID" as most people who are building with Web5 are working with users' DIDs, not their own

Author: ohhh true okay!

> Importing your portable DID, gives the identity agent permission to manage data on your behalf. This step links your agent you your unique decentralized identifier (DID).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Importing a DID gives the Identity Agent permission to manage data on the DID holder's behalf.
```

```js
await agent.didManager.import({
    did: portableDid,
    kms: "local"
});
```

:::note

> The KMS field stands for Key Management Store. It acts as a password manager for cryptographic keys. If you don't specify a particular key management service, such as AWS Key Management Service or Google Cloud Key Management, it will default to Web5's default implementation

Author: I seen a PR for KMS, once merged..I can link it here

> The KMS field stands for Key Management Store. It acts as a password manager for cryptographic keys. If you don't specify a particular key management service, such as AWS Key Management Service or Google Cloud Key Management, it will default to Web5's default implementation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `kms` field stands for Key Management Service and can securely store and manage the cryptographic keys associated with a DID. If you don't specify a particular key management service, such as AWS Key Management Service or Google Cloud Key Management, Web5 will default to an in-memory key manager.
```

:::

## Connect to Web5

> Now, you can take portable DID and your identity agent to connect to Web5 and return an instance of Web5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a custom Identity Agent with Web5, pass the DID and the agent into `Web5.connect()`:
```

```javascript
    const { web5, did } = await Web5.connect({
        connectedDid: portableDid.did,
        agent,
    });
```

> ## Interact with the Web5 API

Reviewer: you can delete this section
